---
id: harvesting
title: Harvesting
---

The process of creating new [blocks](./block.md) is called harvesting.

The harvesting [account](../built-in-features/account.md) - called the harvester - gets the [fees](./transaction.md#fees) for the transactions in the block and [inflation](./inflation.md). This reward gives the harvester an incentive to add as many transactions to the block as possible.

## Harvesting mosaic

Sirius-Chain software allows the [definition](https://github.com/proximax-storage/cpp-xpx-chain/blob/master/resources/config-network.properties) of any [mosaic](../built-in-features/mosaic.md) for harvesting purposes to fit the business needs. The Sirius-Chain test network names this mosaic `xpx.harvest`.

For example, consortium networks can distribute harvesting mosaics between the companies that are running the infrastructure, while other participants need to pay fees in the form of [currency mosaic](./transaction.md#fees) to consume services.

By contrast, public networks might decide to use the same mosaic for paying transaction fees and running the network.

## Local harvesting

During the installation of a [node](./node.md), you will be asked to set up an account that will be used to harvest. The [block header](./block.md#blockheader) includes the public key and signature generated by the harvesting account.

Besides, each node can set a `beneficiary` public key to share a percentage of the harvesting rewards ([fees](./transaction.md#fees) and [inflation](./inflation.md)), where the sharing ratio is configurable for each network. When the node does not define a beneficiary, all the rewards go to the block signer.

Local harvesting is secure as long as no one accesses your node instance, which is storing the private key.

## Delegated harvesting

Delegated harvesting enables an account to use a proxy private key that can be shared with a node securely. In other words, you can use the importance score of your account to create new blocks without running a node.

After an account activates delegated harvesting, its importance score is transferred to a remote account. The remote account inherits the importance of the original account.

Security-wise, sharing a proxy private key with a remote node does not compromise the original account since:

- The remote account has zero balance.
- The remote account by itself can’t transfer the importance to another account.
- The original account receives the resulting fees.

Remote harvesters may not receive the entire reward if the following conditions are met:

The network harvesting sharing rate is greater than 0.
The node selected has defined a [beneficiary account](#local-harvesting).

 	Local harvesting	Delegated harvesting
Configuration	Setup node.	Activate remote harvesting.
Cost	The node maintenance (electricity, cost VPN).	The activation transaction fee.
Security	The node stores the private key.	A proxy private key is shared with a node.
Reward	Total reward. The node owner can share part of the reward with a beneficiary account.

|               | Local harvesting                                                                      | Delegated harvesting                       |
|---------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| Configuration | Setup node.                                                                           | Activate remote harvesting.                |
| Cost          | The node maintenance (electricity, cost VPN).                                         | The activation transaction fee.            |
| Security      | The node stores the private key.                                                      | A proxy private key is shared with a node. |
| Reward        | Total reward. The node owner can share part of the reward with a beneficiary account. | Total reward - beneficiary share.          |

## Schemas

### AccountLinkTransaction

Announce an AccountLinkTransaction to delegate the account importance to a proxy account. By doing so, you can enable delegated harvesting.

In order for the proxy account to be accepted as the `remoteAccountKey` for delegated harvesting, it needs to meet the following conditions:

- It cannot own any mosaics.
- It cannot be a cosignatory of any other account.
- It cannot be a multisig account.
- It cannot already be a delegated account for another account.
- It cannot have its own delegated account.

Furthermore, for the duration that the account is used as a delegated account, it is restricted from:

- initiating any transactions.
- involvement with any type of transactions.

**Version**: 0x01

**Entity type**: 0x414C

**Inlines**:

- [Transaction](./transaction.md#transaction) or [EmbeddedTransaction](./transaction.md#embeddedtransaction)

**Property**     | **Type**                                                                                |	**Description**
-----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------
remoteAccountKey | [Key](https://github.com/proximax-storage/catbuffer/blob/master/schemas/types.cats#L11) | The public key of the remote account.
linkAction       | [LinkAction](#linkaction)                                                               | The account link action.

### LinkAction

Enumeration: uint8

**Id** | **Description**
-------|----------------
0      |	Link.
1      |	Unlink.

