---
id: storage-supercontract
title: Supercontracts
---

**Supercontracts** are advanced blockchain-based contracts stored on drives, capable of executing specific functions automatically or upon certain triggers. These contracts utilize virtual machines for execution, where each has its own set of executors, varying with the number of replicators on the storage layer. Super contracts can interact with the internet, download data, and release transactions based on their code logic. The execution process involves multiple parties: the drive owner who deploys the super contract, replicators (executors) who execute the contract, and harvesters who manage financial transactions. Super contracts can also auto-execute based on predefined conditions, enhancing their functionality. Supercontract is a file generated by Supercontract SDK that contains a user algorithm which should be executed by [executors](../roles.md#supercontract-executor). Every new [SC](supercontract.md) is a new [multisig account](https://bcdocs.xpxsirius.io/docs/built-in-features/multisig-account/) created by the client while deploying a new [SC](supercontract.md). All [executors](../roles.md#supercontract-executor) perform [SC](supercontract.md) operations on a virtual machine.

**Function** (**func**) - some function that is contained in a [SC](supercontract.md) and invoked by name.

**Operation** is called any one action. A function can consist of many operations. For example, one function can include two operations: create a file and move it to some dir.

Every "super file" is uploaded by the ordinary way on an earlier created [Drive](drive.md) and stored by [Storage Replicator Nodes](../roles.md#replicator-node) as an ordinary file. The main difference is that the file must have the **_\*.wat_** extension. When [SC](supercontract.md) starts all [Storage Replicator Nodes](../roles.md#replicator-node) become [executors](../roles.md#supercontract-executor). Each of them has a virtual machine that executes the [SCs](supercontract.md). Every [SC](supercontract.md) should be attached to the [Drive](drive.md) where it is stored and where it is executed.
